German Chancellor Olaf Schultz has
appealed to Iran's new president masud
pesan to do everything to prevent
further military escalation in the
Middle East Schultz wrote on X formerly
Twitter that the spiral of violence in
the Middle East must be broken now any
alternative untils unforeseen risk for
the countries in the region and their
people in it follows up saying uh in my
phone call with the Iranian president I
urge that everything be to avoid further
military
escalation joining us now is benam Ben
talbl in Washington DC he works for the
foundation for defense of democracies
and focuses on Iranian security and
political issues welcome to DW news now
when do you think Iran will
respond pleasure to be with you Tony
that really seems to be the question uh
of the hour or really we should say the
question of the past 10 to 11 days uh
there's no doubt uh in my mind that both
the Islamic Republic of Iran which is
the patron as well as some elements in
this proxy Network like Lebanese
Hezbollah are benefiting from the fear
and the uncertainty and the doubt caused
by the potential delay or dragging out
of this response but I still do see this
as a matter of when and not if
particularly given that on April 13th
and April 14th the regime launched a
historic First Direct overt and kinetic
attack from Iranian territory uh against
Israel uh just for the the listeners and
viewers out there that's anywhere from
900 to 1400 kilometers in distance
depending on where projectiles are fired
from so I do think their leaders mean
what they say uh I think right now
they're enjoying much of the world
trying to come to them and and call for
a deescalation in the tensions uh but
make no mistake they're looking to find
a way to to essentially say what much of
the Hardline press has been saying in
tan for the past week and a half which
is to engage in blood lust uh after the
killing of isma hania in tan
and do we know what form this
retaliation will
take I think I mean there everyone's uh
guessing right now it based on what's
been said in the Iranian press so far I
think the April 13 April 14 missile
drone uh barrage is likely going to be a
price floor rather than a price ceiling
for what we saw uh in the past uh
meaning um Iran is likely going to be
able to employ uh different projectiles
in a layered fashion some which are low
and low flying some which are high and
fast flying uh as well as benefit from
potentially proxy fire uh many Hardline
Outlets have been talking about a 360
degree attack Vector Iranian government
officials particularly military
officials have not confirmed this uh but
I do think you're either going to see a
change in the volume so different
numbers of projectiles or different
amounts of projectiles fired at the same
time in the same direction or The
lethality a more capable system
potentially a harder to intercept system
uh and then of course the
multidirectional threat
factor and will this kind of planning be
affected by the presence of the US
beefing up its military posture in the
Middle
East one of the interesting things about
the changing us Force posture in the
region and this is an observable Trend
going back I think a decade and a half
if I'm not mistaken uh which is that
sometimes even at the peak of having two
US carriers for example in the Persian
Gulf the Islamic Republic of Iran was
still undeterred and this is the larger
challenge both Israel and America faces
in the region which is that while it's
essential to send a strong signal uh to
Showcase military capabilities to both
uh intercept weapons as we be able to
respond to potential strikes the Islamic
Republic is betting uh that the
political will to respond uh is not
there and that's why you've seen it
engage in a whole host of risky
behaviors over this past decade and a
half that has led us precisely uh to the
moment that we're now in I think if some
uh Force deployments had worked they
would have worked well uh in the past
when the regime had a potentially
different and less sticky and less
negative uh perception of us resolve but
nonetheless this is all stuff that the
US needs there for logistical purposes
to make sure there's an integrated air
and missile defense architecture and if
God forbid uh there is a mass casualty
incident to be able to potentially
respond but that's something the Islamic
Republic is trying to wager against okay
benam Ben tblu from the foundation of
defense foundation for defense of
democracies we appreciate your insights
thank you